# Chapter 20: Making Foreign and Defense Policy

**realism**: A theory of international relations that focuses on the tendency of nations to operate from self-interest.
**idealism**: A theory of international relations that focuses on the hope that nations will act together to solve international problems and promote peace.
**isolationism**: The desire to avoid international engagement altogether.
**internationalism**: The belief that nations must engage in international problem solving.
**unilateralism**: A philosophy that encourages individual nations to act on their own when facing threats from other nations.
**Bush Doctrine**: A policy adopted by the Bush administration in 2001 that asserts America's right to attack any nation that has weapons of mass destruction that may be used against U.S. interests at home or abroad.
**multilateralism**: A philosophy that encourages individual nations to act together to solve international problems.
**preemption**: A policy of taking action before the United States is attacked rather than waiting for provocation.
**weapons of mass destruction**: Biological, chemical, or nuclear weapons that can cause a massive number of deaths in a single use.
**hard power**: Reliance on economic and military strength to solve international problems.
**soft power**: Reliance on diplomacy and negotiation to solve international problems.
**theory of deterrence**: A theory that is based on creating enough military strength to persuade other nations not to attack first.
**normal trade relations**: Trade status granted as part of an international trade policy that gives a nation the same favorable trade concessions and tariffs that the best trading partners receive. For example, lifting taxes on China so they are the same as those of Canada or Mexico.
**economic sanctions**: Denial of export, import, or financial relations with a target country in an effort to change that nation's policies.