# GOP Republican Debate 
Hosted in the Reagan Administration Section

**Rand Paul**

*1. Would Donald Trump be dangerous with the presidency?*

*   His visceral response to issues is sickening.

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   I would look over the deal and amend it

*8. Should Obama cancel a state dinner for China's President over currency manipulation and cyberattacks on the US?*

*   We don't need to be rash, reckless
*   Leave lines of communication open
*   We don't want to be isolated
*   Continue to talk to outside powers

*9. Who is responsible for the crisis of refugees fleeing Syria?*

*   Intervention with Assad would have had disastrous consequences

*20. Who are Trump's advisors? His so called dream team?*

*   I have fought against Iraq, Trump is not the only one
*   I made my career opposing war

**Mike Huckabee**

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   This is about survival of western civilization
*   Threatens Israel immediately
*   Nuclear Iranian government has killed Americans, sponsored terrorist groups (Hamas and Hezbollah)
*   Iranians treat this deal as toilet paper

*10. Did Kim Davis do anything wrong?*

*   She was an elected official
*   75% of people in Kentucky voted that marriage was strictly heterosexual
*   Supreme Court was very divided, decided to redefine marriage on a whim
*   Courts cannot make a law
*   If the Court can just make a law, we have judicial tyranny

**Marco Rubio**

*6. How would you get the Russians out of Syria?*

*   Putin wants to reposition Russia as a geo-political force
*   Putin is trying to destroy NATO
*   Russians will begin to fly "combat missions"
*   Putin will tell Egypt, Saudi Arabia that US are not dependable
*   Does not want US to have Middle Eastern relations

*15. Trump criticized Bush for speaking Spanish on the campaign trail. What's wrong with speaking Spanish?*

*   My grandfather taught me about America because he was most comfortable in that language
*   Became conservative even with Spanish, it does not make you the devil
*   I want people to hear me, not some translator at Univision

*16. How do you feel about Ben Carson's plan to fix illegal immigration?*

*   America has three immigration problems
*   First, despite we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, people still come here illegally
*   Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works
*   It mostly depends on whether you have a living relative here rather than married relative
*   Third, we have a decades worth of illegal immigrants living here

*18. Can Trump run for President if he has little knowledge of foreign policy?*

*   There is a massive threat to the US with increasingly militarized outside forces
*   Commander in Chief must know the nuances of foreign policy, Trump can't do that
*   We have a president that is more impartial to the Ayatollah and Iran than the president of Israel
*   I didn't vote as much in Senate because they are not in tune with the future of America

**Ted Cruz**

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   Biggest threat is a nuclear Iran
*   Send over 100 billion to Iran
*   Accelarate Iran militance
*   Will rip to shreds Iran Deal
*   Iran Deal gives up core responsibilty to Commander in Chief
*   Kameni led Iranian peope to chant: 'Death to all Americans'
*   We won't know if and when they develop nuclear weapons
*   Iran Deal allows Iranians time to hide their weapons, if they build any

*11. Would Cruz's push to defund Planned Parenthood shut down the government?*

*   Selling bodies of unborn children
*   It is a felony to sell body parts of children for profit
*   Should not fund criminal enterprise
*   Obama threatens a veto for any bill that defunds Planned Parenthood

*16. How do you feel about Ben Carson's plan to fix illegal immigration?*

*   Check the records of these immigrants
*   I am the only candidate who has not supported amnesty

**Ben Carson**

*4. Is experience in government important to run for President?*

*   I am running because I see issues in government.
*   The people have made their own decisions as to who is corrupt.

*5. Are you a puppet for your donors?*

*   Everyone told me I couldn't make it because I had no money
*   The people are donated money to me because they like me

*13. How would Trump deport millions of undocumented immigrants and how much would it cost?*

*   Recognize that we have a terrible problem with illegal immigration
*   Double fence with a road works 97% of the time in Uma County, Arizona
*   I am willing to listen to anyone who thinks they can do it

*16. How do you feel about Ben Carson's plan to fix illegal immigration?*

*   Allow pristine immigrants to work in the Agricultural sphere
*   If they do not work and pay taxes within 6 months, they are illegal and should be deported

**Donald Trump**

*1. Would Donald Trump be dangerous with the presidency?*

*   I am a businessman, and you need this kind of thinking to make this country great. My temperament is great.
*   Ted Cruz looks terrible, but I didn't say anything

*2. Are you a serious candidate?*

*   I'm number one in polls by a lot
*   I've dealt with people all over the world
*   I'm open minded

*5. Are you a puppet for your donors?*

*   I turn down all money
*   I only work for the people of this country
*   I got along with all politicians because it was my job.

*6. How would you get the Russians out of Syria?*

*   Let Russia and ISIS fight each other.
*   We don't get along with anyone and so we get taken advantage of
*   I can get along with Putin

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   Incompetent Deal
*   No one talks about North Korea, already have nuclear weapons
*   Bad things are gonna happen

*9. Who is responsible for the crisis of refugees fleeing Syria?*

*   Obama has no courage
*   Should have gone in with tremendous force

*12. Will Bush be haunted by a remark questioning funds for women's health?*

*   Bush said it, he meant it
*   I will take care of women
*   I respect women

*13. How would Trump deport millions of undocumented immigrants and how much would it cost?*

*   I wanna build a wall that works
*   There are a lot of bad dudes in this country from outside
*   We are only talking about this because I am running
*   No one else cares about illegal immigration
*   If immigrants have been in jail they are not coming back
*   They do not come here as an act of love

*15. Trump criticized Bush for speaking Spanish on the campaign trail. What's wrong with speaking Spanish?*

*   Should set precedent that immigrants have to assimilate to us, not us to them

*18. Can Trump run for President if he has little knowledge of foreign policy?*

*   Hugh Hewitt says I'm the best interview ever
*   I will have the finest team starting day one
*   I am, in essence, doing business transactions with other nations, which is what I am good at

*20. Who are Trump's advisors? His so called dream team?*

*   I am the only person here who fought against going into Iraq
*   Delegation was sent to my office because I was so vocal about it

**Jeb Bush**

*1. Would Donald Trump be dangerous with the presidency?*

*   Voters will decide that
*   You cannot insult leaders around the world. You need a steady hand. I can do that.

*5. Are you a puppet for your donors?*

*   No. People donate me because I'm dependable
*   People know that I am a principle centered leader
*   Donald Trump wanted casino gambling in Florida and would have payed for it

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   We need to refresh deal with Israel
*   Send message to Iran that we have Israel's back
*   Healthy deterrent

*8. Should Obama cancel a state dinner for China's President over currency manipulation and cyberattacks on the US?*

*   Stricter sanctions over China's actions
*   Cancelling dinner does nothing

*10. Did Kim Davis do anything wrong?*

*   Religious Conscience is a freedom
*   You cannot say that "gay people can't get married"
*   She should have been accommodated
*   If she couldn't sign it, someone else should have

*12. Will you be haunted by a remark questioning funds for women's health?*

*   I am the most pro-life candidate up here
*   Defunded Planned Parenthood
*   We increased opportunity for women, income grew 300% for women over national average growth rate

*13. How would Trump deport millions of undocumented immigrants and how much would it cost?*

*   Send a signal to the rest of the world that we are not interested in our long term results

*14. Did Trump go too far when he suggested Bush's views on immigration are influenced by his Mexican born wife?*

*   He went too far when he brought my wife into this
*   She loves this country

*15. Trump criticized Bush for speaking Spanish on the campaign trail. What's wrong with speaking Spanish?*

*   If a kid asks me a question in Spanish, I will answer in Spanish

*19. What kind of a Commander in Chief is Jeb Bush gonna be?*

*   I am seeking advice from the latest foreign policy advisors, what any candidate would do
*   We build our military to send a signal to the world that we are serious
*   We need the strongest military in the world
*   Peace through Strength

*20. Who are Trump's advisors? His so called dream team?*

*   Trump thinks Hillary Clinton is a good foreign negotiator
*   My brother kept us safe from foreign powers, I can do the same 

**Scott Walker**

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   It was a bad deal on day one
*   Obama folds on every deal

*8. Should Obama cancel a state dinner for China's President over currency manipulation and cyberattacks on the US?*

*   Send a message to China that we won't take this

*11. Would Cruz's push to defund Planned Parenthood shut down the government?*

*   Defunded Planned Parenthood in a blue state
*   Took the money and put it into Women's Health
*   Push this bill to defund Planned Parenthood to the President

**Carly Fiorina**

*1. Would Donald Trump be dangerous with the presidency?*

*   I think his character will be revealed over time and under pressure

*4. Is experience in government important to run for President?*

*   Many people think government is corrupt
*   This is why people without experience in politics are gaining popularity.
*   This is about changing the system.

*6. How would you get the Russians out of Syria?*

*   Start building the army (rebuild 6th fleet)
*   Show force of US around Syria and other Middle Eastern countries
*   We should not talk to Vladimir Putin
*   Give Egyptians intelligence, arm Kurds

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   Call Netanyahu to reaffirm him that the US will help restablish state of Israel
*   Allow US to check up on Iran Nuclear progress at any time by our people only, otherwise we will slap heavy sanctions on them

*11. Would Cruz's push to defund Planned Parenthood shut down the government?*

*   Turning down Iran Deal defends security of this nation
*   Defunding Planned Parenthood defends character of this nation
*   Planned Parenthood is harvesting of human organs

*13. How would Trump deport millions of undocumented immigrants and how much would it cost?*

*   He was not the first person to bring up immigration
*   We talked about it for the last 25 years

*17. Is Hillary Clinton reliable?*

*   She doesn't have a track record
*   She has no major accomplishments

**John Kasich**

*7. Is ripping up the Iran Deal an inexperienced decision?*

*   We don't know what will happen in the next 18 months
*   If they cheat, we slap on the sanctions
*   If they develop a nuclear weapon, we can militarize
*   We work better when we are united

*11. Would Cruz's push to defund Planned Parenthood shut down the government?*

*   I am trying to defund it in my state right now
*   Federal government threatening to take all MediCaid money away
*   There is a way to cut off funding without shutting down the government
*   Money should be given to another organization that would do it better

**Chris Christie**

*3. Do polticians cater their views to what the public supports at the moment?*

*   I'm trying to bring conservative change to a crazy, liberal, democratic state.
*   I belive in the people to fix their own issues

*11. Would Cruz's push to defund Planned Parenthood shut down the government?*

*   I defunded Planned Parenthood in New Jersey
*   Hillary Clinton believes in the systemic massacre of children
*   Force Obama to veto the bill to defund planned parenthood

*13. How would Trump deport millions of undocumented immigrants and how much would it cost?*

*   Never gonna happen
*   I know how to do this
*   15k people need to be deported every day for 2 years
*   Can't be done with current level of funding and law enforcement officers
*   Not just the wall
*   Need to use Drones, take fingerprint of every person who comes into the country with a visa
*   Overstays not welcome

*17. Is Hillary Clinton reliable?*

*   Her private email server is proof that she knows nothing about security
*   Server could have been broken into by the Chinese, Russians, or two 18 year olds for fun

-----

**My Opinions**

I have tried to keep the above coverage as objective as possible, but here are my opinions on all the candidates

**Rand Paul** - I agree with his foreign policy, especially that he is willing to negotiate with other countries. I want a President that will not militarize against the slightest threat. Also wants to end the Drug War.

**Mike Huckabee** - I feel he didn't get as much talking time as I need to form an opinion of him. His support of Kim Davis was appalling. On the issue of accommadations, Davis got the same accommadation as the other prisoners he mentioned (a jail cell).

**Marco Rubio** - Spent most of the debate criticizing others but not suggesting any useful means of reform. Only said that I can do the job, etc, etc.

**Ted Cruz** - Very anti-immigration, stated he was the only candidate anti-amnesty. Wants to defund Planned Parenthood, which is a terrible decision because some parents need guidance through the pregnancy cycle.

**Ben Carson** - Will only host illegal immigrants who pay taxes, have pristine records, and are willing to work on the field. Says he is not a puppet to his donors, and he can bring clarity to politics from an outside perspective

**Donald Trump** - More quiet this debate, noticed the lack of applause and vocal support. Wants to support women's rights after insulting them.

**Jeb Bush** - Wants to refresh deal with Israel, and go against Iran. Again, war is a bad decision for me. Very pro-women's health. Don't want to see dynastic presidency (i.e. Bush or Clinton).

**Scott Walker** - Doesn't want to "fold" to Iran, doesn't want Americans to live in Islamic Terror. Felt close-minded to how the Islamic people live in American Terror across the world. Overall too militant.

**Carly Fiorina** - Waaaaaay too war mongering. Wants to start mobilizing troops on the first day in office (!). Also wants to defund Planned Parenthood, claiming they are a clinic that harvests baby organs.

**John Kasich** - Liked his view on foreign policy, only militarize when confronted. Until then, sanctions are a good deterrent. Wants to defund Planned Parenthood through a backdoor, get around the law.

**Chris Christie** - Too scarred from 9/11 to see straight. WE DID IT IN NEW JERSEY, WE DID IT IN NEW JERSEY, NEW JERSEY, GO NEW JERSEY, HELL YEAH NEW JERSEY, HELL YEAH 9/11, ALSO DID YOU SAY SOMETHING ABOUT WARS?!?!?! #NEWJERSEY
