# Critical Theory - Historical Criticism and New Historicism

*What is Historical Criticism?*

**Historical Criticism** strives to examine a work in its historical context.

*How does this change how we read?*

When we read a piece of literature through a historic lense, we can infer the social, political, and cultural mood of the time.

*What is an example?*

Mark Twain was a writer who both reflected the prejudices of his time, and challenged the views of rascist, 1800s America. Through his work, historicists can gain a better understanding of the attitudes surrounding 1800s America. We can also examine the **ongoing influence** of a piece by studying the effects of the piece on subsequent generations.

*Who are New Historicists and how are they different?*

**New Historicists** examine the history of the time through a "great literary work of art". They also question whether the past as told by literature can be objectively defined, and compare novels and historical documents side by side to accomplish this.

*What is an example?*

A common focus of New Historicists, led by Stephen Orgel, has been on understanding Shakespeare less as a great author but rather on using his work to reveal insights into the world of Rennaisance theatre and the complex social politics at the time.

*Ask yourself these questions to examine literature using a historic lens*

1. What actual historical events did the writer refer to, and how was the event altered in the fictional account?

2. When was the work published and what was the publics reaction at the time?

3. What social attitudes related to the action in the work were prevalent at the time it was written?

4. What other types of historical documents can be analyzes in conjunction with the literary work?

5. To what extent can we study the past as it pertains to this literary work?